# Project 3 Week 1 and Week 2 Deliverables
This is Project week 1 and week 2 deliverables. Download the following files and put them in a folder for MATLAB/Simulink to run smoothly: the files are "init.m", "P3init.m", "initDriveCycleUrban.m", "initDriveCycleHighway.m", "p3runsim.m", and "p3_w1_car.slx". The goal for these deliverables was to build a longitudinal vehicle model in Simulink that features a driver model that follows a desired driver cycle, powertrain and brake system, and urban and highway drive cycles according to EPA, where the driver follows a desired speed within a +/- 3 mph band. Additionally, an electric motor is currently being built to be integrated into the longitudinal vehicle dynamics. The powertrain model will consist of a motor and single-speed transmission. The model helps predict the energy consumed by the vehicle when driving on 2 EPA cycles, and we assume that there is no regenerative braking and that there is an infinite source of power for the motor. The two major assumptions when creating the model are as follows; 1. Assume the torque on wheels can be controlled, 2. Assume no tire slip. The model will then have to travel an urban and a highway drive cycle. The simulation should stay within +/- 3 mph of the EPA drive cycle. The team used the scaffold script and model to develop their script/model. The gain coefficient for the PID controller was determined using manual tuning. The script ran within the 3mp band. This however is only using the simple model and not incorporating the electric motor model. When the script is run, there will be 2 figures that appear. They are the urban and highway drive cycles with the simulation results. The blue line represents the simulation. When observing the plot, the blue line stays within the band.

How to run the script:

1. Download P3init.m, Project3_model.slx, Project3_runsim.m, init.m, init_HWY_DriveCycle.m, init_URB_DriveCycle.m files and ensure they are in the same directory
2. Click "Run" and run the Project3_runsim.m script
3. There is no needed user input or additional scripts to run
4. Look at the figures created.
